README.rst, before:

Parse JSON data in AutoHotkey
*****************************


`json.ahk` allows you to parse JSON data in AutoHotkey.

To load JSON data from a string, use the `json_load()` function.

..  code:: text

    # include <json>

    blob := "{""a"": ""awesome"", ""b"": [0, 10, 20], ""c"": {""d"": true}}"
    data := json_load(blob)

    msgbox, % "data['a'] == '" . data["a"] . "'"  ; `awesome`
    msgbox, % "data['b'][1] == " . data["b"][1]  ; `10`
    msgbox, % "data['c']['d'] == " . data["c"]["d"]  ; `1`


To dump JSON data into a string, use the `json_dump()` function.

..  code:: text

    #include <json>

    data := {"a": 10, "b": ["it's", "a", "list"], "c": {"nest": "yes"}}
    blob := json_dump(data)

    msgbox, % blob



Limitations
===========

Due to mistakes in the AutoHotkey design, `json_load()` and `json_dump()` both
have limitations that currently cannot be corrected.


Numeric values are always strings
---------------------------------

AutoHotkey makes no distinction between text and numeric values. As a result,
if JSON data with numeric values is dumped, there is no deterministic way to
distinguish between a text and a numeric value. Therefore, `json_dump` only
outputs strings, even if the value might be numeric:

..  code:: text

    data := {"int": 0, "str": "0"}
    msgbox, % json_dump(data)  ; `{"int": "0", "str": "0"}`


Applications that consume the JSON output from `json.ahk` must convert strings
to integers if needed.


Dictionary keys are case insensitive
------------------------------------

AutoHotkey ignores the case of all dictionary keys. As a result, if JSON data
contains keys that only differ by case, AutoHotkey will quietly overwrite the
existing data:

..  code:: text

    blob := "{""A"": ""UPPERCASE"", ""a"": ""lowercase""}"
    data := json_load(blob)
    msgbox, % "data['A'] == " . data["A"]  ; `data['A'] == lowercase`
    

Currently there is no known way to force AutoHotkey to respect the case of
dictionary keys. Applications that load JSON data must be aware that they may
lose data due to AutoHotkey's behavior.



Unit tests
==========

`ahk_json` uses Python to test the code in `json.ahk`.

If you want to run the test suite you must install AutoHotkey 1.1.27.04 or
higher. Python will automatically find and launch AutoHotkey from the
`PROGRAMFILES` or `PROGRAMFILES(x86)` environment variables.



License
=======

`ahk_json` is released under the terms of `the MIT license`_.
The text of the license can be found in the `LICENSE.txt` file.

..  _the MIT license: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT

Commit message:

Document that Unicode is supported

README.rst, after:

Parse JSON data in AutoHotkey
*****************************


`json.ahk` allows you to parse JSON data in AutoHotkey.

It features Unicode support when loading and serializing JSON data, and uses
AutoHotkey objects to support JSON lists and dictionaries.

To load JSON data from a string, use the `json_load()` function.

..  code:: text

    # include <json>

    blob := "{""a"": ""awesome"", ""b"": [0, 10, 20], ""c"": {""d"": true}}"
    data := json_load(blob)

    msgbox, % "data['a'] == '" . data["a"] . "'"  ; `awesome`
    msgbox, % "data['b'][1] == " . data["b"][1]  ; `10`
    msgbox, % "data['c']['d'] == " . data["c"]["d"]  ; `1`


To dump JSON data into a string, use the `json_dump()` function.

..  code:: text

    #include <json>

    data := {"a": 10, "b": ["it's", "a", "list"], "c": {"nest": "yes"}}
    blob := json_dump(data)

    msgbox, % blob



Limitations
===========

Due to mistakes in the AutoHotkey design, `json_load()` and `json_dump()` both
have limitations that currently cannot be corrected.


Numeric values are always strings
---------------------------------

AutoHotkey makes no distinction between text and numeric values. As a result,
if JSON data with numeric values is dumped, there is no deterministic way to
distinguish between a text and a numeric value. Therefore, `json_dump` only
outputs strings, even if the value might be numeric:

..  code:: text

    data := {"int": 0, "str": "0"}
    msgbox, % json_dump(data)  ; `{"int": "0", "str": "0"}`


Applications that consume the JSON output from `json.ahk` must convert strings
to integers if needed.


Dictionary keys are case insensitive
------------------------------------

AutoHotkey ignores the case of all dictionary keys. As a result, if JSON data
contains keys that only differ by case, AutoHotkey will quietly overwrite the
existing data:

..  code:: text

    blob := "{""A"": ""UPPERCASE"", ""a"": ""lowercase""}"
    data := json_load(blob)
    msgbox, % "data['A'] == " . data["A"]  ; `data['A'] == lowercase`
    

Currently there is no known way to force AutoHotkey to respect the case of
dictionary keys. Applications that load JSON data must be aware that they may
lose data due to AutoHotkey's behavior.



Unit tests
==========

`ahk_json` uses Python to test the code in `json.ahk`.

If you want to run the test suite you must install AutoHotkey 1.1.27.04 or
higher. Python will automatically find and launch AutoHotkey from the
`PROGRAMFILES` or `PROGRAMFILES(x86)` environment variables.



License
=======

`ahk_json` is released under the terms of `the MIT license`_.
The text of the license can be found in the `LICENSE.txt` file.

..  _the MIT license: https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT
